so I'm just going to start out with some
chalk we've sure how much to put in
there really just a little bit the
conservative the wax tries really
quickly I want to keep it pretty thick
so I guess that might as well go for it
it didn't really blend very well it
doesn't look like it's gonna soak you
know all that good we'll see
splinting pretty nicely it's blended
pretty well but it doesn't really seem
any thicker so I'm gonna add the rest of
my child it seems to work pretty well so
I'm gonna try a little bit more than
this screaming and I really just like it
max out yeah
load so much I can load in there it
seems like this Chuck really drove us a
long ways
so here we go see how this works
this seemed sicker
I mean this seemed to be going on I
think the question is how will it flat
now am i yeah it's definitely going on
thicker it's building it quickly
there's a definite grittiness to the the
pain as well but I like I mean it feels
pretty good
I mean the problem with with this patch
right here is it's really typical now it
doesn't it doesn't seem like it's a part
of they typically if I hold my brush up
like this I don't get as many drips
because these slots seem to hold the
paint a little bit better but you can
see how the wax dries fairly quickly
that's quite fascinating
now one idea is to build up the pigment
with the wax and then kind of go over
the top with a thin layer that might be
kind of adjust some like you so I can
have a thick mixture with this thick of
pigment I can almost just sort of dry
brush the pigment on and it just seems
to build up so much quicker now I will
have to fuse this on that's probably not
adequately fused and by fusing I just
mean that it's it needs to be heated so
that the the layer will fuse with the
layer beneath it before I try to blend I
want to see this will scrape off oh it's
pretty tough it seems like the chalk is
toughened of the film actually that's uh
it's quite a sharp tool there and it's
just barely interesting
there we go it's just the tool to use
right here yeah this is where it can get
we kind of break up that edge soften
that edge a little bit scrape down to
the original layer it's not good
and it seems like it really toughens out
of the pain of film which is not
completely unexpected that's what it
does with oils as well so actually I'm a
little surprised because I thought it
might make the paint film seem a little
gritty or grainy but it isn't at all so
it's really quite surprising
these drips are very hard to get off
though they're I mean it just really
makes this sticky sticky sticky
interesting okay well I'm going to use
the heat gun cleaned up this round so
I'm expecting this to soften enough
considerably see
but it's it's softening the the wax that
doesn't have a chalk first so it's a
little tricky that way but so it's
working pretty good the only thing I can
complain about here is that the the non
chalk pigment melts a lot sooner than
the the chalky pigment which which could
be a problem I mean what I might need to
do is get one of those plumbers heaters
and use a torch on here so I have a
little bit more accurate heating of the
areas the theory here's working pretty
good actually I don't think I don't
think there's much problem with the
theory so I conclude that adding chopped
to encaustic is a safe practice and it
actually strengthens the paint film so
I'll be using this in future paintings
and I hope you will give it a try and
let me know how it works for you